You might recall a little bit ago when we were first talking about Docker, we introduced a couple of
different, really important commands.
So we spoke about, say, Docker, PS and exec and logs.
And I had said that these were really important commands because when we started learning about Kubernetes,
a lot of these commands translate directly into the Kubernetes world.
Now we're going to see that in action in this diagram right here.
I've got a couple of commands from the Docker world, and then they're equivalent over in the Kubernetes
world.
To remember Docker in general is just about running individual containers.
Kubernetes is about running a bunch of containers together.
Once we start making use of Kubernetes, we're not really going to use the Docker command line tool
much anymore.
Instead, we're going to use the command line tool that we use to interact with Kubernetes, which is
Cube ETL.
So just as we have a command to list out all of our running containers, we have something very similar
in the Kubernetes world for listing out all of our different pods.
We've got something in Docker for running a command inside of a container.
Same thing for Kubernetes.
We have something for printing out logs tied to a container.
And then, of course, there's a couple of others that we need to be aware of as well.
So in this video, we're going to very quickly run through all the commands you see right here.
First I'm going to do is show you once again how we can create a pod.
We do so by processing a config file.
I know I'm not starting off at the very top.
Let's just jump down here to the towards the bottom.
So to process a config file and create all the pods designated inside there, we use cube, ctrl, apply
F and then the name of the config file.
So I'm going to do that again really quickly.
Inside my AIDS directory.
I'll do a little apply chef posts post HTML.
And that's going to create the pot.
I can then list out all the different pods with.
It'll get pods.
So I'll do that right now.
There's the pod right there.
It is running.
I can run a command inside that pod by using a kettle exec.
Dash it.
Then the name of the pod and the command to execute inside their.
So for example, we could start up a shell inside of a container that has been ran inside of a pod.
A lot of qualifiers in that sentence with ctl exec i.t.
Then the name of the pod which is posts.
And then the command that we want to run.
So in this case, I could open up a shell with S-H.
And there we go.
I've got a shell open inside of the container inside that pod.
Now remember, a pod can technically run more than one container inside of it at a time.
If you ever are running multiple containers inside of a pod and run this exact command, cube will prompt
you and ask you which container you want to run that command inside of.
But again, you and I, we're only ever going to run one container inside of a pod at a time, so we
don't really have to worry about that scenario.
Once we're all done, we can hit exit and get back to our command line.
Next up to get all the logs out of a pod.
We'll run two logs, then the pod name.
So CTL logs.
Posts.
And there's all the logs.
All right.
Just a couple more very quickly, if we ever want to delete a pod manually for some reason.
Most common reason that you'll do this is if you want to manually restart, a pod will do.
It'll delete pod and then the name of it.
So for example, you've CTL delete pod posts.
When you run delete, it might take a couple of seconds for the deletion to actually be processed all
the way up to ten.
So if it hangs for about 10 seconds or so, that's totally okay.
Just let it do its thing.
We can then do a get pods and we'll see.
There are no pods.
And then we can recreate that pod very quickly by doing another applied post HTML.
Now I could do another get pods and the pod is now there again.
And then finally Cube, it'll describe Pod.
So this will print out some information about the pod itself.
Most importantly, it's going to tell us or give us some debug information if we feel as though something
is going wrong with the pod.
So we could do a little describe pod posts.
I'll run that and then we'll see some information here.
That's kind of all gibberish right now.
But most importantly, down here at the bottom is a event log.
So if something is going wrong with a pod, you will very quickly want to describe the pod and take
a look at the events list.
And this will tell you about some stuff that is going on with the pod and hopefully give you some debug
information.
Okay.
So that's it.
That's a couple of very common commands.
We're going to keep these commands in our back pocket because we're going to use them quite a bit as
we start to work with Kubernetes more and more.
Let's pause right here and continue in just a minute.